📖 Document OLMv1 permission model (#1380)
operator-framework/operator-controller: docs/concepts/permission-model.md

#### OLMv1 Permission Model

Here we aim to describe the OLMv1 permission model. OLMv1 itself does not have permission to manage the installation and lifecycle of cluster extensions. Rather, it requires that each cluster extension specifies a service account that will be used to manage its bundle contents.

1) The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec, which is to manage everything in (2) below.
2) The contents of the bundle, which may contain more service accounts and RBAC. Since the operator bundle contains its own RBAC, it means the ClusterExtension service account requires either:
- the same set of permissions that are defined in the RBAC that it is trying to create.

> - bind/escalate verbs for RBAC, OR

Author: i just removed the OR

#### OLMv1 Permission Model

> Here we aim to describe the OLMv1 permission model in terms of RBAC defined for the ClusterExtension and RBAC contained in the operator bundle ClusterServiceVersion.

Reviewer: Let's avoid talking specifically about registry+v1 bundle-specifics (like the CSV). We can talk more generally about:
1. The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec, which is to manage everything in (2) below.
2. The contents of the bundle, which may contain more service accounts and RBAC

```suggestion
Here we aim to describe the OLMv1 permission model. OLMv1 itself does not have permission to manage the installation and lifecycle of cluster extensions. Rather, it requires that each cluster extension specifies a service account that will be used to manage its bundle contents.

... 
```

#### OLMv1 Permission Model

Here we aim to describe the OLMv1 permission model. OLMv1 does not have permissions to manage the installation and lifecycle of cluster extensions. Rather, it requires that each cluster extension specify a service account that will be used to manage its bundle contents. The cluster extension service account permissions are a superset of the permissions specified for the service account in the operator bundle. It maintains a distinction with the operator bundle service account.

To understand the permission model, lets see the scope of the the service accounts associated with and part of the ClusterExtension deployment:

> 1) The ClusterExtension CR defines a service account to deploy and manage the ClusterExtension lifecycle and can be derived using the [document](../howto/dervice-service-account.md). It is specified in the ClusterExtension [yaml](../tutorials/install-extension#L71) while deploying a ClusterExtension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) The ClusterExtension CR defines a service account to deploy and manage the ClusterExtension lifecycle and can be derived using the [document](../howto/derive-service-account.md). It is specified in the ClusterExtension [yaml](../tutorials/install-extension#L71) while deploying a ClusterExtension.
```

Author: addressed

> 2) The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec is to manage the cluster extension lifecycle. Its permissions is the cumulative of permissions required for managing the cluster extension lifecycle and the RBAC for the operator bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec is to manage the cluster extension lifecycle. Its permissions is the cumulative of permissions required for managing the cluster extension lifecycle and any RBAC that may be included in the extension bundle.
```

Author: addresses

3) The contents of the operator bundle may contain more service accounts and RBAC. Since the operator bundle contains its own RBAC, it means the ClusterExtension service account requires either:
- the same set of permissions that are defined in the RBAC that it is trying to create.
- bind/escalate verbs for RBAC, see https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#privilege-escalation-prevention-and-bootstrapping

> 4) The OLMv1 operator-controller generates a service account with the required RBAC for the extension controller based on the contents of the ClusterServiceVersion in much the same way that OLMv0 does. In the ArgoCD example, the [controller service account](https://github.com/argoproj-labs/argocd-operator/blob/da6b8a7e68f71920de9545152714b9066990fc4b/deploy/olm-catalog/argocd-operator/0.6.0/argocd-operator.v0.6.0.clusterserviceversion.yaml#L1124) permissions allow the operator to manage and run the controller logic.

Reviewer: I'm on the fence about how important it is to include bullet (4). It seems that at a conceptual level, but bullet could be left out and the document would stand on its own, such that it describes the concept without delving into implementation specifics.

On the otherhand, concrete examples can be useful to illustrate a concept. Two alternative suggestions:
1. Re-write this to be more of an example rather than another bullet point.
2. Going along with (1), is there a place in the docs that we talk about `registry+v1` specifics? If so, maybe we insert some details there about how OLMv1 generates service accounts and RBAC? Then we could link there from there.

Maybe we drop bullet (4) for now, and do an example in a follow-up?

Author: updating 4) to an example

Note: The ClusterExtension permissions are not propogated to the deployment. The ClusterExtension service account and the bundle's service accounts have different purposes and naming conflicts between the two service accounts can lead to failure of ClusterExtension deployment.

> The ClusterExtension permissions needs to be manually derived based on the details listed above and specified when deploying a ClsuterExtension.

Reviewer: Rather than stating that RBAC needs to be manually derived, I think I would drop this sentence. We already link to the "derive-service-account" doc above. In the future, we'll make this UX better, and I think it will be easier to catch the necessary doc change if we keep the details about deriving a service account in a single place.

Author: dropping this point

#### OLMv1 Permission Model

> Here we aim to describe the OLMv1 permission model. OLMv1 does not have permissions to manage the installation and lifecycle of cluster extensions. Rather, it requires that each cluster extension specify a service account that will be used to manage its bundle contents. The cluster extension service account permissions are a superset of the permissions specified for the service account in the operator bundle. It maintains a distinction with the operator bundle service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here we describe the OLMv1 permission model. OLMv1 itself does not have cluster-wide admin permissions. Therefore, each cluster extension must specify a service account with sufficient permissions to install and manage it. While this service account is distinct from any service account defined in the bundle, it will need to sufficient privileges to create and assign the required RBAC. Therefore, the cluster extension service account's privileges would be a superset of the privileges required by service account defined in the bundle.

  For instance, in the case of operators, the service account in the operator's deployment. 

 The cluster extension service account permissions are a superset of the permissions specified for the service account in the operator bundle. It maintains a distinction with the operator bundle service account.
```

To understand the permission model, lets see the scope of the the service accounts associated with and part of the ClusterExtension deployment:

#### Service Account associated with the ClusterExtension CR

1) The ClusterExtension CR defines a service account to deploy and manage the ClusterExtension lifecycle and can be derived using the [document](../howto/derive-service-account.md). It is specified in the ClusterExtension [yaml](../tutorials/install-extension#L71) while deploying a ClusterExtension.

> 2) The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec is to manage the cluster extension lifecycle. Its permissions is the cumulative of permissions required for managing the cluster extension lifecycle and any RBAC that maybe included in the extenion bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2) The purpose of the service account specified in the ClusterExtension spec is to manage the cluster extension lifecycle. Its permissions are the cumulative of the permissions required for managing the cluster extension lifecycle and any RBAC that maybe included in the extension bundle.
```
